>> Kent C. Dodds: So I'm gonna wrap
this up with a couple of thoughts
about the different levels of testing and
general wrap up stuff.
And then you can feel free to
ask me any other questions.
And we'll call it a day, okay?
Cool, so
who has heard of the testing pyramid?
All right so the testing pyramid's
shaped like this, like a pyramid, right.
So I should've had an example of this but
you have at the bottom unit,
then integration, and end to end.
And the idea behind the testing pyramid
is it should illustrate to you how
much time you should be spending
in each of these levels.
Well, I disagree with that.
And here, actually the reasons why
people say the testing pyramid is great.
Because as you move from the bottom
to the top things get to be
more expensive from several standpoints.
From maintainability and
from how helpful the error
messages are and how quick they can run.
And the resources required to run them,
things like that.
So it's a lot easier to set
things up down here than up here.
The other reason why they
suggested testing trophy,
is because they're a lot faster
at the bottom, than to the top.
Faster to right, faand faster to right.
So that's the justification for
the testing pyramid, and
when I look at that I see, okay,
so the bottom is cheap and fast.
Why don't I just do all of
my tests at the bottom?
Why, there's nothing here that says
I should do anything at the top.
If it's cheaper and
faster that should always be the answer.
But the thing that the testing
pyramid is missing, and
why I created the testing trophy is
something I call a confidence coefficient.
So down here you can solve really
simple problems, like flow will say,
hey you're passing the variable 3.
That's actually a string,
it should be a number.
Or maybe your parameter should actually be
a number and your function is messed up.
So those are really
easy problems to solve.
But as you go up the testing trophy or
the testing pyramid,
the types of problems that you can
solve with those things are really big.
Like, hey, the checkout button doesn't
work, you're losing money, fix that.
So the justification of spending
most of my time with unit tests,
I'm cool with unit tests,
I think they're great.
But by focusing most
of my time down there,
I could be missing out on
catching some serious issues.
And so the reason that I don't do
everything with End to End is with these
other two issues, they're kinda slow,
and they're pretty expensive.
Luckily, we're getting tools that
are making that a lot better.
And so the top of this testing trophy
is starting to get a little bit
bigger for me.
But integration tests are a really
awesome place to get to where
we can spend most of our time.
We'll get most of our coverage
from that in a way that doesn't
take away from the speed at which we can
run these or the cost from a maintenance.
Or even the resources
to run them standpoint.
So I actually have a whole talk
that's kind of centered around this,
that you can find at Search AS
on their YouTube channel.
Or actually you just go
to kentcdodds.com/talks.
And it is this one, write tests,
not too many, mostly integration.
There's a link to the video there.
So that's pretty much it,
I've got a couple of interesting talks and
links to other things, I also have
a newsletter I send out every week.
It's basically a blog post that's
like 1000 words, it's not very long.
Every single week and
then two weeks later it'll hit my blog.
I got a lot of testing concepts on there
too if you want to look into that.
>> Speaker 2: [INAUDIBLE]
>> Kent C. Dodds: Yeah I'm glad that this
was asked.
So we didn't really talk
about end to end a whole lot.
But one pattern that's really common
in end to end tests is page object.
Where you create this object that
serves a mechanism for selecting and
clicking and updating input values and
stuff like that for a specific page.
The nice thing about that is it makes it
really easy to pull up the settings page.
And type in your username,
your changed username, and
click on the submit button or whatever.
So I actually really don't
like the page objects pattern.
And the reason why is because, to me,
it illustrates that you are testing
the same thing regularly.
So if I need to select
the same thing over and
over then I'm probably going
through the same process.
Often what I'll see is somebody's
writing an end to end test.
And we'll have one end to end
test the user can register, and
then they can check out.
Or they can add an item to their cart and
they can check out.
And then they see the check out page.
And then they have another one that
the user can create an account, log in,
go to their settings page.
And so
you wind up testing the same page over and
over again with this login screen.
Where all you need is one task that can
make sure a user can create an account.
And then the rest of your test can
hit the end point directly and
say hey create me a new user and
then you continue on with your test.
And so I think part of the reason why
the tests are written in such a way
necessitates the page object pattern
is with the tools that we've had up
to this point.
Selenium kind of necessitates
that because it's rendering
in a totally separate context.
You need to get those cookies
in there somewhere somehow.
And so with Cyprus, your texts
are actually running in the context of
the browser, the same context
that regular JavaScript is.
So you can easily access local storage or
do a whole bunch of stuff,
so making those kinds of
problems a lot less evident.
And so I find the page object
pattern is okay, it's fine.
But I find that I don't need it and
if I'm using it,
there's probably something I can do
about my tests to make them better.
Which at the end of the day
will make them faster.
So we were talking about the React
testing library a little bit ago.
There is actually a cypress testing
library that emulates the same kind
of API.
Where you can really easily
select items within the page that
allows you to kind of treat
the page like a user would.
You know,
how does the user find the username field.
Where do they look for
the label that says username and
fills out the field next to it.
So the way that it's written I don't think
that I could get any value out of a page
object because the test itself is,
like the selectors are a lot
more straightforward so.
I don't really use the page
object [INAUDIBLE].
>> Speaker 3: Test as documentation,
[INAUDIBLE] riff on that.
>> Kent C. Dodds: Sure,
tests on documentation.
I've never really referenced
tests as documentation
because it normally doesn't bode well,
it doesn't really work.
So yeah, sometimes especially if
you're doing like the BDD style,
behavior driven development.
Where like you have a project manager
come in and say like right in English,
this is what things should do.
And then you do this magic step
to turn those things into tests,
I could see that as kind of
being a form of documentation.
But most of the time, if I'm looking
at a test suite for something,
yeah, just doesn't make a whole
lot of sense necessarily.
Maybe I could see kind of
some higher level tests that
are literally only talking to the API,
yeah.
But I've never really, I like the idea
of tests as documentation but
I never really rely on it because
it's not really reliable.
Most of the time when developers are
creating tests they're not thinking about
that as tests as documentation.
So maybe you feel that way but
your team will come and mess up all
your documentation without knowing that.
So I suggest document it, and
test it, and life's good.
All righty, that´s it.
Thank you all so much.
>> [APPLAUSE]